no matter what Larry was supposed to be
treating on me over the years usually my
ankles or my knees his fingers always
seem to find their way inside of me
your kindness was simply a ploy to
molest me every chance you got we're
speaking with three of the 156 women who
came forward to share their personal
stories of abuse by someone who they
were told they could trust
Team USA Gymnastics dr. Larry Nasser
Maddy that's tough to hear it's tough to
just even hear it never mind
experiencing it your reaction to Nasser
in court and his own victim routine of
well it was all medical and hell hath no
fury like a woman scorned I mean what
when you watch that heard that what was
your reaction I was angry but
unfortunately I was not surprised
whatsoever he at the courthouse she was
still trying to manipulate us like we
were still his his victims like turning
around and looking at us and saying his
just fake apology and and you could just
see he has no remorse for what he did
and he's just you sorry for himself he's
a sad sad sad human being
the let's talk about the enablers
there's a there's a long list from USA
Gymnastics to MSU and beyond can we talk
about this woman clay giuse Kathy Klages
yes what who is she
Kathy clay gus was the head gymnastics
coach at MSU she was also the first one
to receive an the first known report of
sexual assault there was a gymnast
Delores a voice who spoke in a very
courageously she was 16 years old at the
time she came to colleges and told
Klages in graphic detail what Larry was
doing she said he was fingering her like
a boyfriend and clay juses response was
that's not possible
you must be mistaken and then she
proceeded to parade in all the rest of
the her teammates in front of her to
humiliate her and ask if anyone else
felt the same way and then another
gymnast spoke up a 14 year old who is
testified in court but chosen to remain
anonymous and she confirmed
Larissa's account
she said he's doing the same thing to me
he's penetrating me and clay just
refused to believe them she then sent
all of the gymnasts out of the room
except Larissa and she picked up a
report form and she said I could sign
this but there will be serious
consequences for you and Larry if you
file this and so Larissa backed down and
Kathi then called Larry to tell him what
Larissa had said and sent Larissa back
for continued treatment and she
continued to be subjected to more sexual
abuse and almost every known victim of
Larry Nasser came after that report in
1997 but the college received additional
reports of abuse in three different
athletic departments during 1998 99 and
2000 there are also at least three
psychiatrists that received reports of
abuse one of them being Kyle Stephens
report and then reports from two other
rowers not a single one of them reported
not one not one reported not the crime
the alleged crime at that point not one
what what accountability let's start
with MSU what accountability has it now
the university president is stepping
down with a statement that that doesn't
take full responsibility she basically
says you know in any sort of a you know
situation like this people are gonna
hold somebody like me accountable so oh
well I mean she doesn't it doesn't seem
to here's the statement the last year
and a half has been very difficult for
the victims of Larry Nasser for the
University community and for me
personally the survivors I can never say
enough that I am so sorry that a trust a
renowned physician was really such an
evil evil person who inflicted such harm
under the guise of medical treatment
here it is as tragedies are politicized
blame is inevitable as president it's
only natural that I am the focus of this
anger does that sound like taking
accountability to you but as appalling
as that statement is the board of
trustees has actually been significantly
worse the vice chair of the board of
trustees came out shortly after I came
forward and called us ambulance chasers
who were looking for a payday he
recently said no leadership at MSU
should have to resign because there
would be too much collateral damage he
said that vice-chair of Ferguson on the
MSU Board of Trustees he then said that
we need to remember that there's more
going on than just this Nasr thing and
that we need to look at the full scope
of MSU
because Simon did a really good job
raising funds for their basketball
Stadium what happened to Kathy Klages
Klages was allowed to retire with a with
full pension and MSU has repeatedly
refused to acknowledge that the way that
she handled that report of abuse was
inappropriate and that there were
devastating consequences because of it
and then there's the question of of USA
Gymnastics USA Gymnastics which is an
organization to which so many parents
entrusted their extremely talented
hopeful aspirational young girls
thinking that they would be well looked
after and I want to get to them but have
they contacted any of you they have not
not after you came forward with your
story testimonials no and in fact they
the entire reason this story even came
out was because there were several other
brave USAG athletes who blew the whistle
on the failure to report sexual abuse in
general within USAG the u.s. AG had a
policy of not reporting abuse they had
buried the files on 54 member coaches in
a 10-year period
reports of abuse allowing these coaches
to hop from gym to gym and director
penny defended this policy under oath
saying that they had to have this policy
to quote unquote avoid a witch-hunt and
none of those gymnasts who were abused
by coaches that were allowed to have
from gym to gym were ever contacted
either
alright so Carrie Perry is the new
president for USA Gymnastics this is the
statement she gave us I am profoundly
saddened that a single woman a single
girl a single athlete was hurt
I will not waver on my commitment to
focus each and every day on our
organizations highest priority the
safety health and well-being of our
athletes we will create a culture that
empowers and supports them our
commitment is uncompromising and it is
my hope that everything we do going
forward makes us very clear thank you
all we're gonna be right back
don't go away his ability to gain my
trust and the trust of my parents his
grooming and carefully calculated brazen
sexual assault was the result of
deliberate premeditated intentional and
mythological patterns of abuse patterns
that were rehearsed long before I walked
through Larry's exam room door and which
continued to be perpetrated I believe on
a daily basis for 16 more years until I
filed the police report we are back now
with just a very small portion of the
women who are survivors of Team USA
Gymnastics dr. Larry Nasser who was
provided with unfettered access to young
girls for 30 years by enablers around
every corner and the question is how and
who will be held accountable Rachel Team
USA Gymnastics u.s. agent gymnastics
publicly they say they're with you right
there they're shocked and they're
horrified but there's a there's a case
against them in court right and what are
they saying there well they have made
the statement that they are with us but
we were in court yesterday facing down
our abuser and stopping the worst
pedophile in US history USAG was also in
court too but they were not in our
courtroom with us they were in court in
federal court seeking to dismiss all of
the claims against them arguing in part
that they had no duty to any of us to
warn us MSU was also in court during the
time that we were facing down our abuser
but not in our court and not with us
they were in court asking to dismiss all
the claims against us arguing in part
that no one that had knowledge at msu of
what Larry was doing more any
responsibility and then it didn't count
as notice to the school because it
wasn't reported to a high enough
authority because you the girls didn't
figure out exactly to whom it needed to
be reported that's right our fault
that's correct I was 12 the US Olympic
Committee is now calling for every
member of the Board of USA Gymnastics to
resign to step down should that happen I
can say this
[Applause]
when director penny made that statement
under oath that he wanted to avoid a
witch hunt and then he was eventually
asked to step down the remaining board
members signed a letter in full support
of penny making it clear that they
didn't feel he needed to resign
they then hired a private investigator
to give them steps for moving forward
and this investigator produced a 100
page report detailing all of the things
they needed to change to keep children
safe they were all common-sense policies
one of which is that you need to
mandatorily report the sexual assault of
a child so I have this to say to the
board of u.s. AG if you have to pay a
private investigator to come in and tell
you that you need to report the sexual
assault of a child you have no business
being on that board of a child
[Applause]
the Attorney General felt so confident
in her can't you
hey she was described as the picture of
poise in the courtroom and that's
obvious to all of us sitting here now
there are civil lawsuits as well and the
question is whether first of all before
I get to that but I have to ask you
before we go about to judge oculina
did you see this woman it's it's so rare
to have a woman in power here this kind
of case and she wasn't ashamed to go
with that I mean she shamed him publicly
she referred to the sister army this
what was it like for you to hear
yourselves reflected in in the Trier
effect up there the woman who was
handling the sentencing it was very
powerful I going in going into this I
maybe knew personally a handful of these
women out of that 156 that testified and
us going through this horrific
experience together really does feel
like a sisterhood and I mean you see
Rachel like she's inspirational and
she's if it wasn't for her I don't know
if I would have come out and it's like
our sisterhood army and she's kind of
like our general I will I look up to her
so much
oh you are very very all of your base
took a lot of guts to do what you did
and sadly you know this is happening
someplace else in this country right now
in some other organization and those
people are on notice they're on notice
about the warning signs and the
consequences to covering it up and
putting the onus on the little girls to
protect themselves or the little boys
given the case I want to say this we
mentioned the Corollas and their
facilities they've been they've been
dragged into this because they had NASA
at some of their facilities as well they
have issued a statement denying knowing
that NASA was abusing young girls at
their facility we will continue to
follow the civil case as it plays out
thank you thank you today fans thanks
for checking out our youtube channel
subscribe by clicking that button down
there and click on any of the videos
over here to watch the latest interviews
show highlights and digital exclusives